
	I am writing to you in wholehearted support of Piyush Chandra Kamal, who aspires to join your university for Master’s in Electrical & Communication Engineering. I have known him since 2013 when I had taught him Signal and Systems in the 5th semester in which he scored Grade ‘O’ and Control System Engineering including Control System Engineering Lab in the 6th semester in which he scored Grades ‘A’ and ‘O’ respectively. Piyush took genuine interest in his course and displayed an impressive ability to grasp the essence of all the subjects that I taught.

	Reflecting on his performance, Piyush has demonstrated his academic aptitude in more ways than one. He approached every facet of his work with keen anticipation, and maintained a level of effectiveness that was inspired by his superb work ethic. His firm grasp on logarithm helped him to draw the BODE PLOTs effortlessly. It took him no time to find gain and phase margins from the plot. Since he had a clear understanding of transforms, he could easily figure out the circuit equations in frequency domain. He seldom had any difficulty in drawing signal flow graphs and deriving meaningful interpretations from Nyquist Plots. Through his consistency and punctuality, Piyush had become exceedingly proficient in several aspects of estimating the stability of a system by analyzing rigorously the frequency response of systems. Owing to his commendable understanding of differential equations, he splendidly figured out the analogies between an electrical and its corresponding mechanical systems as well as vice versa.

	Piyush embodies the drive and enthusiasm a teacher hopes to find in a student. He absorbs every concepts taught in class and proficiently implement his theoretical knowledge into practical application in the Lab largely due to his superior technical skills. Under my supervision, he executes all his experiments with due diligence. His regularity in class and timely submission of assignments abundantly demonstrated his genuine interest in his course. I appreciate his superior verbal skills and his confidence in carrying out his final viva. He promptly and accurately answered all my questions which encompassed several aspects of Control Systems. I had arranged a group viva session for the candidates in which each candidate asked the other a set of questions and vice versa. As expected, Piyush responded exceedingly well and expertly fielded all the questions posed to him.

	An all-rounder, Piyush ensured that he did not miss out on the various activities of the college. He was a lively participant in the ‘Yes +’ course of ‘The Art of Living’ and had won third prize in the event ‘Western Vocals.’ He also has a great deal of interest in engineering projects carried out in ISRO and DRDO. After the third year, Piyush got an opportunity to undertake industrial training from Defence Electronics Applications Laboratory, DRDO on the ‘Study of RF Components and Testing of Up/Down Convertors.’ During that period, he not only worked on the communication systems that operated in the C-Band but also worked on determining the Path loss factors of coaxial cables in addition to designing Filter circuits on the ADS simulator. He also worked on Up and Down convertors. His initial work on spectrum analyzers (during his Control System Lab) helped him in his training while working on the same.
	I have a strong opinion that Piyush Chandra Kamal has incorporated all the right aptitude to flourish in an MS program. Having witnessed his well-demonstrated capabilities and accomplishments, I give him my unstinted recommendation and wish him grand success in all his future endeavors.
