It was after a great deal of self-evaluation during the 12th grade, when I had to
choose between Hindi and C++ that I opted for the latter. I had been told that Hindi
being my mother-tongue it would be a cakewalk for me to score well in it, but I
surprised everyone by scoring 27/30 in C++. I knew then that for the rest of my life
computers would be the focal point of my existence. It wasn’t before high school
that I had realized my future would be linked to computers although I’d been
introduced to it much earlier. After higher secondary school, I had two months’
break before college studies commenced. In order to productively exploit this time
span, I joined "Dynamic Solutions" a firm developing simple customized software
applications for small businesses. This two-month period turned into a period of
rich learning experiences as it was related to the application and development of
my C++ skills.
Beginning my under-graduation I continued to keenly assimilate knowledge in Data
Structures, C++, Java, Database, Matlab etc. In addition to academics, I attended
various programming trainings from HCL K2 academy and OCJP certification. I
also attended a number of webinars and seminars hosted by top computer science
professors like Ajit Diwan. I proactively engaged myself in projects and internships.
With the deepening of my interest in software languages, my uncle, a civil
contractor benefited from my increased knowledge when I created a simple
program for him that performs a simple CRUD operation for labour profiles,
maintaining accounts of concerned individuals and firms. With this successful effort
I knew that my inclinations toward software had been effectively consolidated.
In my 7th semester, TCS, and an electronics manufacturer Samsung arrived for a
Campus Placement drive. I got placed in both and similar to my earlier decision of
having chosen C++ over Hindi I chose TCS over Samsung even though the latter
was offering a higher pay-packet. It has been almost three years since I began
working at TCS and I am a technical module lead for a client, Citibank. I have over
the years gained valuable experience in various technologies. Citibank used to
perform a lot of processes which were tiring and vulnerable to errors. The client
was getting exasperated because of these issues, so I automated these processes
to minimize the client‘s concerns . Also, for existing applications used by the client,
I replaced existing logic with logic that was crisper and intelligent thereby
improving the performance of these applications. The entire process was much
appreciated by the client. I received a number of awards for excellent coding and
problem solving skills. I gained proficiency over many languages, tools and
framework viz. vbs, perl, active batch jobs, python, spring, struts, C++, Matlab,
Javascript, jsp, angular js etc. I have absolutely no idea how these three years
went by, for the work was engaging and offered great growth prospects. It offered
me potential to rise to great heights.
It was midway during these three years, what with constant interaction with
American clients and exposure to sophisticated technologies that I realized that I
simply must gain higher education in the US. While TCS is a wonderful company
and my knowledge is rising in a linear fashion here, I want it to grow exponentially
to a much higher level. This can happen only by imbibing higher and advanced

knowledge from a world renowned University in the US. MS in CS in the USA will
therefore be an ideal step, helping me gain access to present day world class
technologies and their applications. It will also help me fulfill the dream of securing
a PhD. I wish to focus on research after my MS and am hopeful of securing a
scholarship and am convinced that I deserve it. A scholarship will lessen the
burden of financial overheads and I shall then be able to concentrate with greater
intensity on academics.
The research-oriented areas of Computer Science and the facilities on offer make
North Eastern University a natural choice for higher studies. I am fully conscious of
the fact that successful research involves not only mastery over a chosen field of
study, but also calls for knowledge of other related fields. Your University’s
facilities fulfill these criteria perfectly. Furthermore, luminaries such as Stephen
Chang and Ryan Culpepper who constitute your faculty are another reason for my
strong desire to become part of your intellectually stimulating environment. My
academic credentials and confidence are intrinsically combined in my claim that I
shall leave no stone unturned to prove my mettle.
I am therefore looking forward to becoming part of your campus with passionate
fervour beginning fall 2017.

