STATEMENT OF PURPOSE
 
 
“Tell me and I forget. Teach me and I remember. Involve me and I learn” - Benjamin Franklin
 
These words best summarizes my outlook towards learning.Ever since the era of computers have begun there have been unprecedented developments in technology.From the very beginning i have always been fascinated by technological innovations and their seamless integration into our lives thus computers have always intrigued me.I can clearly recall my first program to move a logo turtle by providing some simple commands at my middle school.This very first interaction with computers moved me but it was not until my high school when i chose information practices and i was introduced how computers work and how we can interact with them to  metamorphose complex problems into  simpler ones.As I delved deeper into the course lectures i was already determined that i want to be part of this technical contingent,i scored 96 out of 100 in theory and made a library management system in C++ language as my project which was then put in use to maintain our high school library. 

To carry forward my curiosity towards computers i toiled hard to secure an  admission in a federally funded institute National Institute of Technology, Raipur for my undergraduate studies in computer science and engineering.During my four year program my understanding of computers enhanced as i went through diverse subjects like Data structure and algorithms,Database Management Systems,Computer Networks,Data Mining,Artificial Intelligence and Neural Networks etc.Among all of these,subjects like Data Mining.Artificial Intelligence,Neural Networks and Fuzzy Systems specially piqued my interest.I consistently ranked among top 1 % of the batch.

For one who believed in learning by doing,puting technical expertise to use through  pragmatic projects were a vital part of my learning experience.I developed a full stack secret agent in my second year in which  plaintext is first  encrypted using cryptographic techniques and then encrypted text is hidden  and incorporated inside image pixels.As a result it was selected as a showcase project in the technological exhibition held at our college and later it was given second prize amongst competing projects.In my third year i worked on motion detection for camera surveillance using java,which was highly appreciated by faculty and peers alike,after being  nominated as showcase project for our technical fest and it also won first prize for  best implementation and accuracy.In order to gain industrial experience and work on real world applications i got an opportunity to work with Computers and Information Technology department of  BSP (Bhilai Steel Plant) for my summer internship.I was part of a team of four people in which my role was to develop a robust interface that connects 

With the aim to learn more about  artificial intelligence and machine learning,in  my third year i started taking independent online courses like Machine Learning from Stanford Online (now called coursera) given by renowned professors in machine learning areas like Andrew Ng.The course comprised watching course lectures,completing assignments and working on projects like building naive bayes spam classifier from scratch using GNU Octave.I was able to complete the course by successfully accomplishing 98% grade.This curated and especially focused course clearly gave me a diverse glimpse of applied machine learning areas.The final year in my college started with creating literature review of different approaches taken in classifying signals using machine learning techniques  from a P300 speller as my minor project,taking that forward in  my major project i worked on cluster based ensemble for P300 speller,in which i devised a algorithmic framework to combine multiple base clustering algorithms like particle swarm optimization, fuzzy c means and k-means with center tuning and  majority voting technique to create an ensemble and combine results of the same using MATLAB.

Further to take my engineering endeavour a step forward and apply my imbibed knowledge to the real world computer systems i decided to apply for Oracle as a part of campus placements.Out of 500 students 10 students were selected and i was one of them.As a part of Research and Development team at Oracle my role was to to develop completely robust automation systems which can work without human intervention using Java and related technologies.As a by product of my curiosity I also developed a utility framework for automatically importing,exporting oracle data dumps,resolving invalid or corrupt units and setting up flexcube (Oracle’s Banking Product) environment using python.
As my interest was to apply machine learning in banking domain i was selected as a part of a “Incubating Innovation” campaign held directly by CEO of Oracle Financial Services Software Chet Kamat and selected for a team of experts working on applying machine learning at various areas of Flexcube product like knowing creditworthiness of an individual. 

To ensure i was academically prepared for such an advanced program like MS in Computer Science,and to satiate my thirst for machine learning and artificial intelligence i graduated from Udacity’s Machine Learning Nanodegree program and Coursera’s Deep Learning Specialisation,where i learned and implemented various domains of machine learning and deep learning by watching courses,giving quizzes,submitting assignments and projects and building capstone projects and documenting it through reports.I have also published a conference paper in ACM called Predicitng Bollywood Movie Success using machine learning techniques.

its  artificial intelligence and machine learning especially piqued my interest.
 
Under my four year tenure of  undergraduate studies my understanding and knack for computers further intesified  
 
I am confident that the skills and expertise I have gained through my academic and professional exploits will hold me in good stead during and after the program.
 
My knack for Mathematics and propensity to apply the same into scientific principles along with my fascination for Electromagnetic Waves and the principles of communications led me to opt for an undergraduate program in Electronics and Communication Engineering.
 
 During my four-year program, I learned more about Communication Systems, Signal and Systems, and Control Systems as they taught me differential equations and transform theory with an outlook of a significance of differential equations and transform theory in various engineering scenarios. These helped me to understand how different electrical and communication systems worked, by making a rigorous analysis of circuit equations in time as well as frequency domain. As I explored advanced concepts, Mathematics continued to be my favourite subject and as I focused on enhancing my knowledge of advanced Engineering Mathematics through my study of Fourier series, Transform Theory, Differential Equations, Complex Numbers and Vector Calculus. I was also fascinated by the representation of a square wave as a superposition of an infinite number of sine waves of different frequencies and how the properties of vectors could be extended to the study of signals. I firmly believe that these aforementioned subjects and strong Math skills have honed my interpretative ability which will be of immense help in my MS program.
 
 With the aim to explore antenna study in greater depth, I started working on “Development of a Novel Nature Inspired Optimization Technique: Water seeks its own Level” project. The objective of this project was to optimize the antenna design to improve the performance. Part of my final year project team, I used basic principle of fluid mechanics to exhibit and prove that a system of connected containers with different initial heights of liquid (water) can achieve an equilibrium state when liquid level matches. My role in the team was to write the algorithm. To do so, I used the fundamental equation of fluid that relates to the pressure gradient. For this task, using two containers, I wrote the equation for the net force on the cross-sectional area of the pipe connecting them. Thereafter, for normalization, we left the area of cross sections of the said pipes constant, which gave us an equation for optimizing heights. Our efforts paid off when we successfully tested this project in MATLAB and achieved desired results. This project was significant to my growth as it gave me insight to antennas, implementation of algorithms and realizing the correlation that exists between different aspects of sciences.
 
 Thereafter, during my final semester, I got an opportunity to complete my summer training at Defence Electronics Applications Laboratory (DEAL), DRDO. At the laboratory, working on mixers (up and down converters) helped expand on my learning’s in analog communication. I also worked on factors like path loss of different transmission lines (especially coaxial cables) and designed filter circuits for different microwave frequencies on the ADS simulator. Here, I studied the Radio Frequency Transceiver (RFT) and functioning of several components of the same from local oscillator to tuned circuit and filters used (this reminded me of superheterodyne receivers I had studied in my 4th semester). My mentor demonstrated usage of the device to achieve a distance-free communication in remote areas. For the first time, I saw waveguides that connected to giant parabolic antennas to facilitate communication in the C-band. Not only was the internship intriguing, it has provided me with the practical knowledge, elevated my understanding of how RF systems work and how satellite communication is achieved with fidelity.
 
 To ensure that I was academically prepared for an advanced program such as the MS in Electrical Engineering, I pursued and completed the IADL certified course on Embedded Systems and Robotics LEVEL I (Robotics) from Appin Technology Lab and CCNA program from SPG technologies. Having completed these courses, I gained a deep insight into how practical methods can be deployed in our day to day problems. In embedded systems training, I was fascinated by the fact how C program could be used in running the microcontrollers to achieve vivid tasks. Even the basic programs could be used in accomplishing beautiful LED patterns. In networking course, I learned data communication protocols and how to simulate different networking environments.
 
 Further strengthening of my Engineer has been my endeavour to enhance my programming skills through gaining calibre in SQL, JAVA and database concepts. Bachelors in Electronics and Communication Engineering had provided a robust base of communications, however, to satiate my thirst for knowledge of computers, I decided to apply for Oracle as a part of campus placement process at my college. My aforementioned background and expertise supported me and I successfully cleared the interview process and joined the multinational organization in October 2015. As part of the Performance Engineering team, my task includes fine tuning the performance of different modules of an Oracle product - Flexcube. For this, I create scripts in JAVA to perform load testing, generation of reports and fine tuning the performance by analysing the reports. My work at Oracle has also exposed me to different hues of teamwork and introduced me to various challenges as a great learning opportunity. These have been important to my professional development because all these experiences have helped me in sharpening my overall skills.
 
 Having come this far, I would like to take my learning and practical experiences to a new level through an MS in Electrical Engineering. I believe the program will help me to expand my core knowledge of communications theory and practical skills through the study of Electrical and Systems Engineering. Since I aspire to instil my creative thinking by working on innovative projects on signal processing, I am keen on studying Communications System and Signal and Systems as well. My decision to study at the University also stems from the opportunity to work with Prof. Richard Blahut whose focus areas are in sync with mine.
 
 I am confident that my academic abilities and professional experience will allow for a mutually beneficial academic term at the University of Pennsylvania. In this regard, I bring with me skills developed through my participation in various extracurricular activities. These I will leverage at student clubs on campus.

